content/posts/2023-03-18-book-review-captivate-the-science-of-succeeding-with-people.mdx, before:

---
title: "Book review: Captivate the science of succeeding with people"
date: "2023-03-18T15:43:30.350Z"
heroImage: /post-images/captivate-the-science-of-succeeding-with-people.png
draft: false
tags:
  - BookReview
  - SoftSkills
---

This is not another book on soft-skills.

Let me explain.

Typically, when you read a book in this genre you are just reading the ideas from the same old Dale Carnegie's book: "How to win friends and influence people" just with a slightly different sauce.

And you probably don't want to read a book like that, especially knowing that something might have worked 50 years ago, but might not very well bring results right now, as the advice might be dated by now. As some social techniques got badly overused or considered to be the basics of good etiquette right now.

So, Vanessa, the author, acknowledges the issue by bringing science to the subject, as all of her experiments been tested in the "people lab" so we know what truly works.

The book starts and ends with a social skill test, so you can assess your progress over the course of the book.

During the initial test, you are asked a bunch of questions like that one:

![](https://i.imgur.com/gdPFDZM.jpeg)

If you can't pick up on fundamental social cues like that, then likely speaking you're going to have a hard time talking to other people.

But don't worry, Vanessa got you covered, she will take you through the chapters of this book, so you will be more socially intelligent at the end of it.

In the book she covers a bunch of interesting topics. For example, you might know that during the handshake your body releases oxytocin hormone, so you feel good about the person you are speaking to. But did you know that you can achieve the same dopamine hit during an online Zoom meeting just by waving your hand?

![](https://img.freepik.com/premium-photo/wave-laptop-businessman-video-call-online-meeting-collaboration-conversation-employee-digital-device-discussion-feedback-presentation-start-virtual-call-training-project_590464-98986.jpg)

About why this is works precisely, and a plethora of other social tricks you can learn inside this book.

Overall, the book felt like a great and interesting read, even a bit too nerdy in certain places, but I still can strongly recommend it, as I'm sure it is something that can take your soft-skills to the next level, and this is what this book is all about.

Commit message:

Audio version for:
Captivate the science of succeeding with people article

content/posts/2023-03-18-book-review-captivate-the-science-of-succeeding-with-people.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Book review: Captivate the science of succeeding with people'
date: '2023-03-18T15:43:30.350Z'
heroImage: /post-images/captivate-the-science-of-succeeding-with-people.png
draft: false
tags:
  - BookReview
  - SoftSkills
---

[Audio version](https://voca.ro/1d9cN8aO1ZIu)

This is not another book on soft-skills.

Let me explain.

Typically, when you read a book in this genre you are just reading the ideas from the same old Dale Carnegie's book: "How to win friends and influence people" just with a slightly different sauce.

And you probably don't want to read a book like that, especially knowing that something might have worked 50 years ago, but might not very well bring results right now, as the advice might be dated by now. As some social techniques got badly overused or considered to be the basics of good social etiquette right now.

So, Vanessa, the author, acknowledges the issue by bringing science to the subject, as all of her experiments been tested in the "people lab" so we know what truly works.

The book starts and ends with a social skill test, so you can assess your progress over the course of the book.

During the initial test, you are asked a bunch of questions like that one:

![](https://i.imgur.com/gdPFDZM.jpeg)

If you can't pick up on fundamental social cues like that, then likely speaking you're going to have a hard time talking to other people.

But don't worry, Vanessa got you covered, she will take you through the chapters of this book, so you will be more socially intelligent at the end of it.

In the book she covers a bunch of interesting topics. For example, you might know that during the handshake your body releases oxytocin hormone, so you feel good about the person you are speaking to. But did you know that you can achieve the same dopamine hit during an online Zoom meeting just by waving your hand?

![](https://img.freepik.com/premium-photo/wave-laptop-businessman-video-call-online-meeting-collaboration-conversation-employee-digital-device-discussion-feedback-presentation-start-virtual-call-training-project_590464-98986.jpg)

About why this is works precisely, and a plethora of other social tricks you can learn inside this book.

Overall, the book felt like a great and interesting read, even though a little bit too nerdy in certain places, but I still can strongly recommend it, as I'm sure it is something that can take your soft-skills to the next level, and this is what this book is all about.
